docs: hello world tutorial for AsyncApi v3 (#2004)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/getting-started/hello-world.md

---
title: "Hello world"
weight: 30
---

> Let's define an application that's capable of receiving a "hello {name}" message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's define an application that's capable of receiving a `"hello {name}"` message:

```

<CodeBlock>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

Let's get into the details of this sample AsyncAPI document:

<CodeBlock highlightedLines={[1]}>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

> The first line of the specification starts with the document type `asyncapi` and the version (3.0.0). This line doesn't have to be the first one, but it's a recommended practice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first line of the specification starts with the document type `asyncapi` and the version (3.0.0). That line doesn't have to be the first one, but it's a best practice.
```

channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

The `info` object contains the minimum required information about the application. It contains the `title`, which is a memorable name for the API, and the `version`. While it's not mandatory, it's strongly recommended to change the version whenever you make changes to the API.

<CodeBlock highlightedLines={[5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12]}>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

The `channels` section of the specification houses all of the mediums where messages flow through. For example, some systems use `topic`, `event name` or `routing key`. Different kinds of information flow through each channel similar to the analogy of TV channels.

> You only have one channel called `hello` and you see what message is available in this channel and how it must be structured. The `payload` object defines that the message must be a string and match the given regular expression in string format like `hello {name}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You only have one channel called `hello`, and you see what message is available in this channel and how it must be structured. The `payload` object defines that the message must be a string and match the given regular expression in a string format such as `hello {name}`.
```

<CodeBlock highlightedLines={[13,14,15,16,17]}>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

> The `operations` section is where you describe what the application is doing. Is application a consumer that `receive` messages or producer that `send` messages, or both? Each operation has unique identifier like for example `receiveHello`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `operations` section is where you describe what the application is doing. Each operation has a unique identifier for example, `receiveHello`.
```

> In above example you see that `Hello world application` is a consumer that listens to `sayHelloMessage` message comming from `hello` channel. In other words, you can say that `Hello world application` subscribes to `hello` topic to `recive` the `sayHelloMessage` message. This AsyncAPI document describes what `Hello world application` is doing, and not what others can do with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, you see that the `Hello world application` is a consumer listening to the `sayHelloMessage` message from the `hello` channel. In other words, you can say that the `Hello world application` subscribes to the `hello` topic to `receive` the `sayHelloMessage` message. That AsyncAPI document describes what the `Hello world application` is doing, not what others can do with it. 
```

---
title: "Hello world"
date: 2019-04-01T10:56:52+01:00
menu:
  docs:
    parent: 'getting-started'
weight: 30
---

Let's define an application that's capable of receiving a "hello {name}" message.
<CodeBlock>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

> Let's get into the details of this sample specification:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's get into the details of this sample AsyncAPI document:
```

{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

The `channels` section of the specification houses all of the mediums where messages flow through. For example, some systems use `topic`, `event name` or `routing key`. Different kinds of information flow through each channel similar to the analogy of TV channels.

In this example, you only have one channel called `hello`. The sample application subscribes to this channel to receive `hello {name}` messages.

<CodeBlock highlightedLines={[6,7,8,9]}>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

You can read the highlighted lines as:

> > This is the `payload` of the `message` that the `Hello world application` is subscribed to. You can pass the value of `address` to the `messages` to the `hello` channel and the `Hello world application` will receive it through `operations` object.

Reviewer 2: This single line is really confusing 😅 
- `This is the payload of the message that the Hello world application is subscribed to` you don't subscribe to a message, you subscribe to a topic where you receive certain messages.
- `You can pass the value of address to the messages to the hello channel` too many `to the` creates confusion for me.
- `through operations object` makes no sense to me

Author: sure, i will update it

<CodeBlock highlightedLines={[10,11,12]}>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

The `payload` object defines how the message must be structured. In this example, the message must be a string and match the given regular expression in the format `hello {name}` string.

<CodeBlock highlightedLines={[13,14,15,16,17]}>
{`asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Hello world application
  version: '0.1.0'
channels:
  hello:
    address: 'hello'
    messages:
      sayHelloMessage:
        payload:
          type: string
          pattern: '^hello .+$'
operations:
  receiveHello:
    action: 'receive'
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/hello'`}
</CodeBlock>

> The `operations` object defines the operations that are supported by the API and it receive message from the `receiveHello`.

Reviewer 2: I think this is clearer:
```
The `operations` object defines the operations that the application performs, meaning it receives the `sayHelloMessage` message from the channel `hello`.
```

Author: thank you
